So the last thing we're
gonna do in this simples,
I'm gonna go kind of went backwards,
but that's okay.
At home, I'm going to set
up Firebase authentication.
So every time you set
up a Firebase service,
it's important to make sure that you
have things enabled in the console.
So I've enabled my Firestore,
I'm going to go and enable authentication.
Authentication is especially important to
be very explicit about enabling because
you only wanna support specific providers.
You don't want all of a sudden people
are trying to sign in with, Google, but
you only wanted people
to sign in with GitHub.
So you want to be able to manually say
these are the providers I support.
So we're gonna support just my, this is
my most favorite of all auth providers.
It's called anonymous authentication.
And there's two benefits to it.
One, the user,
you can authenticate them without
them entering any credentials at all.
It sort of authenticates them as a guest.
And it's a short lived time period,
so eventually I think after
a certain session length
they become unauthenticated.
So it allows you to just sort of take
a user in as sort of a guest process and
then if they do decide to sign up,
you can actually link their account
with all the data that they've stored.
And another benefit of anonymous
authentication is that when you
write with Firebase SDK you
learn how to spell anonymous.
It's a very difficult word to spell but
you write it all the time.
So, if you're ever in a spelling
bee you're gonna get this one.
So every provider needs to be enabled,
that's a very important thing.
If not we'll give you an error in
the console that's in the browser console
that's, hey, you probably didn't enable
this and you're trying to log in with it.
But it's good to know that we need
to enable all providers before use.
So just like before,
I'm gonna go and I'm just gonna copy code
just to make this go a little faster.
I want to copy just the Firebase app
config And now I have this.
So I have my Firebase app.
So I wanna talk to
Firebase authentication.
And just like I said previously,
all services or
all Firebase services are in
their own sub packages.
So this is in Firebase off.
All have getter functions so
I can call get auth,
and then now if I want to
pass in the Firebase app.
And from here I can start
signing in users, so
I'm gonna import a method
called signInAnonymously.
And so when a user signs in I want to call
signIn Anonymously with the auth object.
And then if I wanna get the results
of this user I can say,
const result = await signInAnonymously and
then this will give me a user credential.
Which I could say, results.user and
it gives me all this important
information about a user.
Now, one thing that you might be noticing
is that just a minute ago I said,
we will never,
ever await the results of things.
We will always do things in loops.
We will be doing that, but
I'm breaking this rule to show why
this is not a good idea to do it.
This is possible, but there's
a better practice, which we'll find.
So await that the user will get logged in,
and then we'll push him over to dashboard.
And then within dashboard,
if I wanna get that user,
let me copy some code over and
I copy the Firebase auth code,
And let's get auth, And
from here what I actually
can do is I can see
what the user is by
calling auth.current user.
And so this will kind of spit that out and
I'll even just for
visual effects not sure
if I'm displaying it.
I'm going to log off that current user.
All right, so let's start home,
Let's click Sign In.
All right, we signed in.
And we can see we have this
user implementation and
we can say, look at that is anonymous,
this is true.
Let me bump that up, is anonymous is true,
we have metadata created at these times.
We have provider ID, Firebase, but
we have what is most important is the UID.
So this UID is how you start associating
user information with data in FireStore.
So as I create documents, I can say,
hey, this document belongs to this user.
And I could do that when I go
here to create a document.
So there's this new markdown.
So right now I'm just kinda
creating this new string.
So instead of doing that,
I'm going to create a new document.
So I'll say const newDoc = doc,
use the markdowns Collection.
And then what do I use as an ID?
Well, if I leave this ID blank it
will actually generate an ID for
me just out of the box.
And so now I can say newDoc.id and
all that generation happens on the client.
We don't have to wait to go to
the server to see what our ID is,
all of that is client based.
You'll find that a lot in using
the SDKs happens on the client.
While a lot is async
a lot is also not async.
It's interesting how it works.
And so now what I need to do though,
I have this document I have
it's ID I want to create it.
So I'm gonna call setDoc, And
what I'll do is I'll pass a new doc and
then I wanna give it data and
I'm just gonna fill it with blank
markdown and blank converted.
All right, so now when I click New.
Look at that, up top here, it's kinda
hard to see, but that's a generated one.
So this is a new doc with cool markdown,
okay,
if I click back, there it is right here.
So this is really cool